Now that you know about complex numbers and how to work with complex numbers I'd like to go back to
the quadratic equation and revisit that video on the quadratic equation.
So if you haven't already gone through that video then I recommend pausing this video and going back
to watch that video on the quadratic equation and then coming back here so you will remember that in
that video what we did was create a function that computes the quadratic equation and gives two output
corresponding to the two solutions or the two routes of that second degree polynomial.
And then what we did was put that into a matrix where we looped over different ranges of these two coefficients
B and C and then made an image of that.
Now you will remember there was this warning that said casting complex values to real discards the imaginary
part.
And so what I want to do now is go back and actually separate these plots for the real part and the
imaginary part.
So in fact you're going to generate three plots one corresponding to the real part of the solutions
one corresponding to the imaginary part of the complex solutions and another one corresponding to what's
called the magnitude of a complex number.
So the magnitude of a complex number is the distance between the origin of the complex plane and they
coordinate that's represented by that complex number.
Okay.
So let's see what we can do here.
So here's our matrix M and what I'd like to do is just start by viewing the real part of M.
Now based on this warning message I already expect that the real part of M is going to produce a graph
that looks exactly like this.
Okay.
So it does look exactly like this but we still get this warning here.
So maybe let's just ignore this for the moment and see what the imaginary part of M is.
Mm hmm.
And this is just one solid green block and you can see that this is all at zero and we still get this
warning.
Now what's actually happening here is that this warning is not coming from this line of code.
This warning is coming from this line of code.
So the output of the quadratic equation function can be complex as valued.
However this matrix is not set up to handle complex value numbers.
And so to change this we actually need to explicitly tell none pi in this zeros function that we want
to be able for this matrix to represent or to contain complex numbers.
So you have to right d type for a data type equals complex.
OK.
So now I'm going to run this code again and we will see what happens here huh.
So.
OK.
So first of all that warning message went away.
So that was already pretty nice.
And now we get this really interesting looking plot where it looks like there's a lot of values that
are zeros here.
Now I'm going to come back in a moment and talk about how to interpret this plot.
But first what I want to do is generate some additional plots and have them all be next to each other.
So we can see the three plots all side by side.
So to do that I'm going to use subplots.
So let's see.
I will write BLT the subplot.
And so the subplot function takes three inputs the first two inputs correspond to the geometry in terms
of the number of rows and the number of columns.
So I want this figure to have one row three columns.
And then the third input corresponds to the axis that you want to be currently working on.
So that's going to be one for the first axis.
Now if you're thinking it should be zero because Python starts counting at zero then yes I agree it's
a little bit confusing.
OK.
So let's run this code now and see how this looks so.
Notice that this plot got a bit smaller.
Now the color bar doesn't really look good anymore.
So we don't really even need the color bar except it is useful to remember that in this plot zero caused
so a value of zero corresponds to this yellow color over here.
OK.
So this shows the imaginary part although in fact I would like to show the real part on the left.
Now I'm going to copy and paste this code.
And now we're going to work on the second image so that's going to come here.
Remember this is a one by three geometry.
So it's one row and three columns.
Now this one is actually going to contain the imaginary part and maybe we should make a more informative
labels.
I'll say real part.
Get rid of this and get rid of all this.
And this is going to be the imaginary part loops and parentheses okay.
So here I actually copied and pasted too much.
So this P L T dot show command is really only supposed to be run when you are finished plotting.
Okay.
So now we see these two plots side by side like this.
However the y axis label from this plot is being drawn on top of the real part.
And in fact we don't even need these here.
So I'm even going to simplify things a bit by getting rid of this.
And so I'm going to get rid of the labels and I'm going to turn off the axis so axis off.
So notice that completely turns off this axis.
And then I will say the same thing here.
Okay.
Now this looks a little bit more interpretable.
And then the last thing that I want to plot is the magnitude of the complex number.
Again that was the distance between the origin and the coordinate indicated by the complex number.
And that is called the absolute value.
So magnitude Whoops.
Okay here the problem is I'm putting over the second plot here okay.
So now that the plotting is done I want to take a few moments to interpret what you're looking at here.
In particular focusing on the real part and the imaginary part so you can see that there is this structure
here this kind of looks a bit like a tongue sticking out where there's zero imaginary part here so zero
imaginary part means that there are real valued solutions and when there is an imaginary part then these
are complex valued solutions.
And so to help us interpret this actually I will leave the access on for this first plot here.
So remember that these are the values for b the second coefficient and these are the values for C.
So what this plot is telling you is that as B gets larger either negative or positive.
So the further away B gets from zero the more you have real valued and not complex valued solutions.
Now that doesn't only work on its own it's actually interacting with the C parameter and in particular
as the C parameter gets smaller so closer to zero then you're also seeing more and more real value solutions.
Now let's keep that interpretation in mind and look back at the formula.
So essentially we get complex valued solutions when there's a negative number inside this square root.
And how do you get a negative number inside the square root.
Well you get a negative number.
Basically when this term is larger than this term.
So to get real value solutions you want either b to be large or a time C to be small.
And now here we're fixing a to b 1.
So let's just ignore a and we can just think about C so when C is small and B is large we get real valid
solutions which means no complex numbers which means no imaginary part.
And that's what this graph is showing you here.
As B gets large and it doesn't matter if it's large negative or large positive because B ends up being
squared.
So this highlights one of the really powerful ways of using Python or other computer numerical softwares
for visualizing mathematics because we can get some really beautiful insights into the nature of these
equations.
In this case the quadratic formula by making plots of the results of the formulas and kind of looking
at the plots and thinking about the formulas.